>Job with Missions
Many characters in adventure fiction work for some kind of an organization. The organisation’s goal motivates their adventures. And the PCs go on the adventure you have planned because their boss tells them too.

James Bond works for MI6, and gets his orders from M. Rebels work for the Rebel Alliance. Brave knights work for their king. And the Agents of Shield work for… you guessed it.

>Secret War
The secret part allows the setting to look like our everyday world. (Or the everyday medieval world, etc.)

Secret War is often combined with Job With Missions. But it can also work without the chain of command. Vampires vs Werewolves. Magical threats vs Magical Defenders.

>War
A full-blown war gives soldiers (and others) an unlimited supply of missions and other excitement.

>Freelancers
Paid freelancers include Ghostbusters(tm), private detectives, mercenaries, etc. PCs can be guns for hire, swords for hire, spells for hire, cyberdecks for hire, or have fast ships (or other vehicles or transport methods, for hire.

The PCs are contacted by their customers, and paid to go on adventures.

>Privateers
Privateers were like pirates who operated during a war. They had permission from their side to attack and rob ships belonging to the other side.

In traditional fantasy RPGs, parties of humans, elves, and dwarves are free to invade the homes of orcs, trolls, and goblins, dragons., and take their stuff.

Robin Hood robbed the rich with the approval of the poor. And the thieves of fantasy cities are accepted back on their side of town when the return with loot lifted from the fat nobles and merchants.

>Treasure Hunters
Treasure hunters seek valuables that have no current owner. They are popular in fiction. And raiding a dangerous tomb is a straightforward adventure. This it a very simple driver, which is both its greatest strength and its greatest weakness.

Also, treasure hunters who are after the Big Score will either get tired of failing, or succeed and retire. So consider mixing this with at least on other driver. Or start with it and transition to something else.

>Quest
A long process, usually a journey, to get a single thing. Works best for short campaigns or as a nested driver. The advantage is a single crystal clear goal. The disadvantage is that it can be hard to stack a large number of adventures in front of that goal.

A quest can be nested inside a longer campaign.

Or the PCs might go about the business of the other driver, always alert for any clue that might allow them to advance their quest.

>Colony
PCs are part of a group trying to make a new life in a new world. Use as the setting for one or more other drivers.

>Castaways
PCs are lost or marooned away from their own kind. They explore, survive, and look for a way to get back home. (A large group of castaways might turn into a colony.)

>Journey Home
A classic Quest

>Quest for a New Home
Another kind of Quest. It’s a standard quest if they know where they’re going. If they don’t know where they’re going, I recommend mixing in another driver.

>Defenders of…
…the world, their own group, their species, anyone weaker than them, normal people who don’t know The Secret, normal people without special powers, an oppressed/hated/hunted group, The King, the nation, the nation and it’s allies, an outpost, a castle, a nomadic band, etc…

>Defenders Against…
…a supernatural threat, a sinister conspiracy, the other side of any of the above.

>Resistance
…to invaders and oppressors.

>Revolution
…against invaders and oppressors.

>World-Changing Disaster
War, plague, asteroid, invasion, bacteria that eats plastic or computer chips, sudden climate change, AI take-over, etc. Best when combined with another driver.

>World Change
Spread of magic or superpowers. Alien arrival. Contact with another plane. Also best when combined with other drivers.

>Survival (Wilderness)
Fire, food, shelter, dangerous animals. Often combined with Castaway. It’s a great component but hard to make a whole campaign out of it.

>Survival (Hunted)
The PCs are running and/or hiding from something. Kind of a downer by itself. But popular in fiction.

>Survival (Other)
Also works best with something else mixed in.

>Escape
A kind of Quest. A desperate journey to Anywhere Else. Powerful, but hard to run very long by itself.

>Merchants
Merchant adventurers exist when great dangers and difficulties separate supply and demand. Think of the early spice traders in Earth’s Age of Exploration, the caravans along the Silk Road, or maybe the fur traders of the American frontier.

An adventurous trading life could form the backdrop for other adventures. This is the classic “fast ship” scenario.

And an actual green eyeshade, counting the gold pieces kind of campaign really appeals to some players (and is totally boring to others).

>Smugglers
Independent smugglers, who buy low on one side of a border and sell high on the other are a classic kind of merchant adventurers. Smugglers might also work for a gang or a rich buyer (or seller) who sends them on missions. Either way, it’s a model with a built in opposition.

However, smugglers are trying their hardest to avoid excitement and conflict. So maybe mix this one with another driver, either by adding some smuggling within another driver, or by making the smugglers open to other kinds of jobs. (They have a fast ship…)

>Build Power and Resources
A core component of many successful RPGs. And it works great with all the other drivers.

Note that I didn’t say “build wealth”. That by itself leads to the treasure hunter’s dilemma. Either it goes slowly and is too much like a normal job, or it goes quickly and the PCs retire.

But players’ appetite for power seems to be endless. And it’s extra-motivating when the resources are needed for some other driver’s goal.

>Keys Quest
A classic… The Great Magic Thing was divided into parts. The parts were scattered and hidden in dangerous places. And the PCs have a reason to find them.

Like all quests, it has a final end. But it has a bunch of intermediate ends, too. Twelve parts automatically gives you twelve adventures. Stretch it to a few adventures per part and you can get a whole year of play.

It’s over-used. But it’s over-used because it works.